do you wanna learn how to drive a
thousand ecommerce sales from seo
without being an seo expert
well today i'm gonna teach you how hi
everyone i'm neil patel and today i'm
gonna break down four e-commerce seo
techniques for beginners
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
now i have a question for you i want you
to leave a comment below so that way i
know how to better help you out how many
sales are you getting per month from
your e-commerce store if it's zero
that's okay i know i need to help you a
little bit more then if it's a hundred
or a thousand let me know whatever the
number is below on a monthly basis what
you're getting in sales and i'll make
sure i'll help you out whenever you need
it
so step one google merchant
it gives you free exposure free organic
traffic in the google shopping tab
there's integrations with a lot of
e-commerce platforms that can help you
generate your shopping feed
automatically and even submit it for you
automatically to google merchant
step two
product page seo
don't focus on search volume in your
keyword research process
focus on keywords with transactional
intent just keep this in mind
if someone types in laptop you know they
could be doing research on laptop they
may need laptop repairs they may be just
trying to figure out you know what's
coming up with apple's latest laptop
that they may be releasing but if
someone's looking for cheap laptops for
college or the best laptop for college
students that's more transactional right
that's going to get you more sales and
if you're struggling to find these
transactional keywords you can type in
head terms like laptop those are those
one or two word keyword phrases within
ubersuggest.com
and when you type it in it'll give you a
whole laundry list of ideas in the
keyword ideas report so when you're on
ubersuggest once you type in your
keyword in the left-hand navigation
you'll see keyword ideas you click on it
and you'll see all the recommendations
related to laptops and there's even
questions there prepositions comparison
keywords a lot of these will be
transactional-based keywords that aren't
that competitive don't drive as much
volume but they'll definitely drive you
revenue
you also got to keep in mind your title
meta description you want to include the
brand of the product there you want to
include the name of the product there
and include the model number as well or
anything else that differentiates your
product or makes it unique and helps us
stand out from competitors who may be
selling similar products and of course
you want to add structured data add faq
content so that way people know hey
here's the faqs but google can also pull
that in you want to share real
testimonials not fake ones real ones the
more detailed with images even better
and you also want to write unique
product descriptions optimized for both
seo and conversions and this one's a big
mistake that i see people making because
when they're writing product
descriptions a lot of times they're
selling the same product that other
people have to offer and they're all
using the same product description that
the manufacturer gave so if they do that
how does google know which one to rank
everyone's site looks duplicate so make
sure that you're going above and beyond
with the product descriptions you also
want to use canonical tags if you have
different models and variations of the
same product and eventually you stop
selling those old products a lot of
ecommerce stores make the mistake of
they just delete those pages so i'm like
why would you delete those pages a lot
of links to it a lot of people still
going to those pages you want to make
sure they use canonicals or even 301
redirects and optimize for the mobile
shopper experience you know because for
a mobile device people don't have as big
of a screen it needs to be fast you want
to use things like breadcrumbs you want
to showcase your product with amazing
imagery and video better than any one of
your competitors maybe even do 3d views
and that all helps
step 3 minimize your load time and
maximize your size speed we talked about
this a little bit but just think about
it if you're in the middle of nowhere i
don't care if there's 5g that you're
paying for probably not going to get 5g
reception heck you're probably not going
to get 4g maybe though you'll get 3g so
make sure you optimize for size speed
you can use google page speed insights
put in your url or heck you can even go
into uber's house put in your url check
out the site audit report and in that
site auto report it pulls a lot of stuff
from google's core vitals updates and
ensures that your website is doing all
the things that you need to do from an
on-page perspective as well as a site
speed perspective so you can do well for
both mobile devices and desktop devices
and even tablet devices
step four create relevant url structures
a lot of people in e-commerce for some
reason they put numbers in the url i
don't know why unless a model number or
the product has a number in there you
should avoid that you want to include
keywords that are relevant to your
product because that's how you're going
to get the most traffic in the long run
and keep in mind you don't want your
urls too long when your euros are really
really long google thinks that when
someone types in a really really long
query your url should rank but then when
someone types in one or two words that
are part of url but not everything in
there what you'll find is it's harder
for you to rank even when
your web page is a perfect fit for that
keyword query that someone just typed in
so when in doubt try to keep your urls
more shorter than longer now if you need
help with your ecommerce seo check out
our ad agency np digital where funny
enough over 40 percent of our clients
are in the e-commerce space and we love
helping them grow their traffic as well
as through seo paid ads and content and
all the other services out there that
you may need if you have any questions
leave a comment below i'm here to help
if you enjoy the video like it share it
tell people about it thank you for
watching